# Module5PyberChallenge
##Overview of the Analysis
This project produces a graph visualizing a large range of data which includes driver counts in a range of cities and revenue generated by ride fares for a company named Pyber. To do this, the project imports and combines data from a pair of .csv files and reformats that data into a pivot table to then convert into a multi-line graph.
This project also assembles dataframes to quickly examine key statistics such as driver count and average fare per ride and average fare per driver for a given type of city (distinguishing between three types: suburban, urban, and rural).
This project can be used to quickly examine a large amount of data contained in multiple sources in order to anaylze trends and revenue amounts over the period of several months.
##Results:
From the analysis of the Pyber data, we can see that the amount of total fare collected in each of the three types of cities follows a reasonably assumed pattern, with rural cities generating the least total revenue from fares and urban cities generating the most. The difference is substantial: Rural cities generated $4327.93 of revenue, suburban cities generated $19356.33 of revenue, and urban cities generated $39854.38 of revenue. 
However, in rural areas the fare collected by each driver is much higher. A rural driver averages $55.49 worth of fares versus an urban driver's $16.57 worth of fares collected in the same space of time, making a rural driver more than three times more valuable than an urban driver. Suburban drivers fall between the two other types of cities, generating on average $39.50 in fares- still more than twice as valuable as a driver in an urban area. Average fare per ride is also highest in rural areas, with an average ride making $34.62. Urban rides by comparison make $24.53 in average far, and suburban areas once again are in the middle with $30.97. Interestingly, we can see that there is an overabundance of urban drivers compared to the amount of rides given in the data set. 1625 rides were given in urban cities, but Pyber employs 2405 drivers to operate in urban areas. This could account for the lack of profitability per average fare and average ride in urban areas (although it should be noted urban areas are still by far the most profitable areas for Pyber).
There is an upwards trend in the data for urban and suburban areas, which is shown on the graph produced in the course of this analysis. Pyber is clearly getting more profitable with time. However, each area trends upwards and downwards several times. The positive trend we see is not strong, but drops in revenue appear to be related to time of the week- especially in urban areas- or seasonal in the case of the suburban areas. Rural areas maintain a low amount of business with several peaks and dips in revenue generated, but the trend is basically flat or very slightly positive.
##Summary
The graph of the fare generated by Pyber in each of the three types of cities depicts urban cities as highly profitable and rural cities as low earners. While this is true, it is also an oversimplification. By comparison to rural and suburban cities, average urban fares and the average revenue generated by urban drivers is low. Urban areas produce money based solely on the amount of rides they give. Our data shows that riders will pay more than the average fare of $24.53 that urban rides generate- up to ten dollars more in rural areas. Our data also shows us that scarcity of drivers compared to rides given produces higher fares per ride and per driver. In rural areas, which has the highest amount of average fare per driver, there are 75 drivers giving 125 rides. 
My first recommendation is to reduce that amount of drivers in urban areas by at least several hundred. Urban cities employ 2405 drivers who give only 1625 total rides within the scope of the analyzed data.
My second recommendation is that, despite the low amount of revenue generated by rural areas, to keep changes in the scope of Pyber operations in rural areas to a minimum.
Drivers in rural areas are by far the most profitable, each one making $55.49 for Pyber on average, but the ride count in rural areas isn't substantially higher than the driver count. Employing more drivers in rural areas could affect the profitability per driver, which is rural areas' greatest asset to Pyber.
My third recommendation is that, if this is not already a company practice, Pyber implement variable pricing according to the peaks in urban fares generated. Coupled with a lower driver count, variably increased prices at the points of highest revenue (and therefore highest demand) will drive up the profitablility of urban rides in the areas of both average fare per ride and average fare per driver.
